hey everyone it's neil patel and welcome
to another day of growth hacking
unlocked if you missed the previous
lesson you can check it out at
neilpatel.com training and click on
growth hacking unlocked
when most people think about growth
hacking they think about marketing and
when i was doing research to make this
course i already knew about all the
tactics and growth hacking or a lot of
them out there and strategies but i just
wanted to do research just to make sure
i wasn't missing anything that was
important
and one common trend that i saw was most
companies that were leveraging growth
hacking and were succeeding at a very
rapid rate
had venture capital to help put more
fuel on the fire
so i thought
i couldn't truly create a growth hacking
course without including raising capital
just in case you want to raise capital
so in this lesson i'm going to talk
about how to raise capital and i'll also
be diving a little bit more into that in
the next lesson as well i like to play a
little game called facts or fiction
before we get started just keep these in
mind my industry is too hard to raise
money in big companies needed capital
funding
you need a marketing budget
you need
funding for infrastructure we'll answer
them as we go through the lesson
so when you look at a lot of the tech
stocks out there microsoft apple amazon
google also known as alphabet facebook
they've climbed at a very rapid pace
but all these companies
started with capital they raised money
even microsoft they didn't raise a ton
of money but they did end up raising
money when you think about funding
there's a lot of different stages from
self-funding to seed then you get to
venture things like series a b c
or even venture debt and then there is
your ipo and when companies go public
they're typically raising money as well
then you also can get into later stage
deals you can get into m a leverage
buyouts you can get into secondary
offering
these are all different ways that you
can end up raising money so now let's
take a look at some examples one of my
companies that no longer exist was
called kissmetrics i ended up raising
16.4 million dollars over seven rounds a
little bit too many rounds
and kissmetrics was originally a
spin-off from my older company crazy egg
which i no longer involved in my
brother-in-law and my sister uh own it
and now they run it
and one of our competitors mixpanel
they raise 77 million over five rounds
uh one other lead investor is andreessen
horowitz people know of mark andreessen
or ben horowitz
and when you think about mixpanel they
ended up getting to over 100 million in
revenue over time at least from some of
the articles i read i don't know how
accurate they are
and they've done it in a lot less rounds
when you think about series a b and c's
typically a series a round it can range
a lot when i started off typically
series a rounds were one two four
million dollars now i'm seeing them
sometimes 10 15 20 million even
sometimes even higher in series a
funding rounds investors are not just
looking for great ideas they're looking
for traction they're looking for money
making businesses the average estimated
capital raised in a series b round is
roughly 32 million dollars series c
rounds are typically for scaling growing
even faster when you think about d e and
f it all just starts blending in this is
when companies just take a lot of money
and they don't want to go public right
away and they want to stay private
longer when you think about venture
capital over the past few years i don't
have data on the recent years the more
recent years or even crazier than this
you know people kept having higher and
higher valuations they kept raising more
and more money um and it's funny these
days i see people in some cases
raising rounds of just 500 million a
billion dollars sometimes even 2 billion
it's kind of crazy to think about it
sequoia capital has invested in over a
thousand companies since 1972 including
apple google oracle nvidia github paypal
linkedin stripe youtube yahoo instagram
whatsapp and it's backed companies now
that control well over a trillion
dollars of combined stock market value
technically it's trillions and trillions
of dollars they also because of them 22
of the nasdaq is made up of sequoia
capital companies there's a lot of
institutional investors out there
there's private equity companies uh
firms there's also venture capital
companies like sequoia capital there's
investment funds some of them are like
hedge funds there's pension funds
there's custodian banks sovereign wealth
funds like
saudi arabia invests quite a bit into
startups i believe they bought quite a
bit of twitter and uber back in the day
i'm pretty sure on twitter i could be
wrong on uber there's insurance
companies and family offices a lot of
people are getting into startup
investing and you'll want to create a
potential investor sheet you want to
think about who your competitors are who
could be potential
investors for you and that'll give you
ideas and where i get a lot of my data
from is a site called crunchbase it's a
platform for finding information on
businesses as well as investors and what
they're investing in and current space
investment information includes things
like funding rounds members who led the
round how much did they raise they're in
essence the data as a service you don't
really need to pay for them you can get
a lot of the information from crunchbase
for free and it pretty much just looks
something like that you can search
rounds and you can just keep going you
can see who are the biggest players
and from there you can do initial
outreach um and what i found is
technically getting warm introductions
works better and then you'll have to do
a pitch deck
and then with your pitch deck
you'll have to present it and if they
like it
you're off and you're going to get more
meetings with them and then potentially
money if they don't like it you probably
won't hear back from them and get
another meeting
and i have some resources to create
pitch decks for you and you know going
over and creating a list of all the
vendor firms that you could potentially
raise money from but you can find that
at neilpatel.com training click on
growth hacking unlocked then go to week
one lesson one and you'll see the
uh worksheets i have for you that'll
help you with your pitch deck some key
questions to answer in your pitch deck
is what does your company do how's it
different how big is a market do you
have any traction what is it what are
the unit economics
if you have churn what's your churn
and during your meetings you want to
make sure that you introduce
your investor to yourself your product
services you want to make sure you have
things buttoned up like your market size
and ideally recommend you going uh
bottom up versus top down top down in
many cases is much harder to do and you
want to share any insights that they may
not know about your market don't assume
anything about them but a lot of them do
come really well prepared in doing their
research with your
raise
the one thing i would do is it's not
just about who's giving you money uh
it's about who's a good fit for you
understand what they're doing it's not
just about optimizing for the less least
dilution you want to optimize for who's
the right fit and you want to have clear
next steps at the end of meetings such
as they'll think about it they'll follow
up with questions um maybe schedule
another meeting
and after the meeting make sure you
follow up and keep in mind that you may
get no's i've got a lot of no's a no
doesn't mean no a no just means not
right now one of the original companies
i pitched was true ventures they said no
to my first company and eventually they
end up investing in kissmetrics didn't
work out but the node just meant not
right now
and you want to work on creating
pressure by having a competitive process
talking to multiple investors they're
going to do the diligence on you and
your company and fundraising is not just
about the goal it's about
optimizing for the
long-term you know goal of your company
not just the goal of quote-unquote
raising money if you look at companies
like facebook back then companies didn't
raise as much as they do now but even
when they raise money people thought it
was crazy to raise hundreds of millions
of dollars instead of just going public
and you know their angel round was 500
000 and back then that was normal angel
rounds now people raise angel rounds in
the millions and millions of dollars
next week i'm going to be covering later
stage
funding rounds leverage buyouts ipos and
even m a
and now you should have the answer to
all of these and look no matter what
people are telling you
you can raise money even if you're in a
hard industry and you know all companies
of all sizes need capital and there's
scrappy ways of doing it you can get
loans sbas out there if you're based in
the united states you can figure out how
to do marketing for cheap or you can do
it with a lot of money and i'll go over
really cool marketing tactics that are
capital efficient next week uh so the
next lesson is going to continue on
fundraising but after that i'll go over
more
specific marketing tactics and
strategies that you can leverage
and funding does help with
infrastructure but again there's scrappy
ways to do it if you don't and aren't
able to raise as much money as you want
if you enjoy this video like it share it
tell the people about it if you need
help
make sure you just email us at support
neilpatel.com if you want my team and
company to just do everything for you
check out my ad agency neil patel
digital thank you very much